## Why do flows not have a location
By Bo Weidema

### On the difference between Supply & Use data and Direct Requirement data, how these are mixed up in the EXIOBASE hybrid SUT, and how such a mix can be avoided

In Supply & Use tables, which matches the raw form that Flow data are usually obtained in, we know for each activity how much inputs and outputs the activity has of each FlowObject, e.g "paddy rice": On the one hand we know how much paddy rice a paddy rice production produces, but we typically do not know who will consume it. This is the supply data, in which each flow is connected to only one activity, namely the supplying activity. On the other hand, we know how much a consuming activity consumes of paddy rice, but we typically do not know who produced that specific rice. This is the Use data, in which each flow is connected to only one activity, namely the using (consuming) activity. The flows and flowObjects do not need to be specified by location, since they obtain that from the location of the activity.

A Direct Requirements Table, which matches a product footprint database, the Supply data and the Use data are combined by applying some specific assumptions about how activities supply each other. In other words, each flow is now connected to both a supplying and a using activity. The flows still do not need to be specified by location, since this is given by the supplying and using activities. However, there are several assumptions that can be be made for this linking of activities and flows. One approach applies an averaging assumption, where all suppliers are supplying all users proportionally to some property of the products, typically economic value, and using average trade data to link between suppliers and users in distinct countries. Another approach is concerned with identifying the consequences of changes in demand, and therefore only connect users to unconstrained suppliers, i.e. suppliers that can change their supply as a consequence of a (marginal or incremental) change in demand. From the same Supply & Use table, both types of Direct Requirement Tables can be produced, simply by changing the linking assumptions.

So in a Suppy & Use table, we should expect to find that Flows are linked to one Activity only and no activity linking assumptions are made, while in a Direct Requirements Table, we should expect that Flows are the link between two Activities and that the linking assumptions are specified. Yet, in the EXIOBASE hybrid Use table, we find that Flows have been provided with (country of origin) location, so that for example the amount of paddy rice used by a specific activity in Australia is split between the paddy rice with origin in China, India, etc., i.e. information that you would normally only expect to find in a Direct Requirements Matrix. Why is this? The reason is that the EXIOBASE hybrid Use table combines data from two original data sources: The national Supply & Use tables and a balanced version of the international bi-lateral trade data.

Let me illustrate this with the attached Excel sheet with a numerical example of the paddy rice Supply and Use in a World with only 3 countries, AU, IN and CN (the numbers are of course made up): The first set of tables (1) gives the typical EXIOBASE representation, where Use is specified by country of origin. The following sets of tables (2) gives the original data from the national supply & use tables that include columns on export and import, but which do neither specify destination of exports nor origin of imports (just like domestic uses are not specified by specific domestic suppliers). This information is rather to be found in the third table (3), the bi-lateral trade table, which is originally constructed from separate data sources. So the EXIOBASE representation of the Use table is actually constructed from these two original data sources, as can be seen from the formulas in the Excel sheet, and thereby becomes a mix between a Supply & Use Table and a Direct Requirements matrix, because the application of the bi-lateral trade data implies an average linking assumption between Activities located in different countries. This makes it impossible (or at least difficult) to use the EXIOBASE data to make alternative Direct Requirement Matrices (DRM), such as the marginal DRM illustrated in table (5), where CN is assumed to be the only country with an unconstrained paddy rice production, implying that any demand from paddy rice users will lead to an increase in CN paddy rice production and no change in other countries.

For transparency reasons, as well as to allow flexibility of use, is important to keep the original Supply & Use data separate from the linking assumptions. Fortunately, the attached example also illustrates how the EXIOBASE Hybrid tables can be de-constructed into the original national Supply & Use tables and a trade matrix, both of which can be stored in the BONSAI format, without the need to assign a location to any flow. The original Supply & Use data is simply obtained by summing all uses of each flow object into one flow. The trade information is preserved by taking the off-diagonal trade flows from the EXIOBASE Use table and placing them in the separate trade matrix.
